# Example Newton fractals 

This code generates a fractal image using the Newton-Raphson method. The fractal is generated by iterating over all the pixels in an image, and for each pixel, performing the Newton-Raphson method starting with the complex number corresponding to the pixel's coordinates. Depending on which root the iteration converges to, the pixel is given a corresponding color. The fractal that is generated is of the function f(z) = z^3 - 1, which has 3 roots at 1, -0.5 + (sqrt(3)/2)i, and -0.5 - (sqrt(3)/2)i.

## Functionality

The code is written in C and uses the math library and the complex.h library for complex number operations. The code also uses the timer.h library for timing the execution of the code, and the openacc.h library for parallelizing the execution using OpenACC.

The parameters that can be adjusted to change the generated fractal include the number of iterations (MaxCount), the range of the x and y coordinates (xMin, xMax, yMin, yMax), and the number of steps in the x and y axes (steps). The tolerance for determining if a point has converged to a root (Tol) is also adjustable. Increasing the number of iterations or the number of steps will result in a more detailed fractal, but will also increase the runtime of the program.

## Requirements

To run the code, a C compiler and an OpenACC compiler is required. The code can be run on a GPU or a CPU by specifying the appropriate compiler flags. The code can also be run on a cluster or supercomputer by specifying the appropriate flags to run on the cluster's or supercomputer's GPU or CPU.

After the execution, the code will output the number of points that converged to each of the roots, and the percentage of points that converged to each root. It will also output the time taken for the execution of the code.

## From original [repo](https://github.com/rdean-udel/CISC372-Project)

Newton fractals are fractals generated by coloring each point in the complex plane based on which root it converges to when using Newton's rootfinding method. The program is set to generate the fractal for the function f(z) = z^3 - 1, and the amount of points that converge to each of the three roots, or do not converge at all are counted. The serial version of the code is based on code by Mitch Richling (https://www.mitchr.me/SS/newton/index.html) and is parallelized using both OpenMP and OpenACC. Code timing is done using timing code provided by Professor Chandrasekaran.